Add a threat model to Tock's documentation. (#1632)
tock/tock: doc/threat_model/Application_Loader.md

on.

Tock kernels that require all applications to be signed do not need to trust the
application loader for application integrity, as that is done by validating the
signature instead. However, the application loader still needs to be trusted for
availability guarantees, as it can still modify applications and make the
signature check fail. Tock kernels that do not require signed applications must
trust the application loader to not maliciously modify applications.

To protect the kernel's confidentiality, integrity, and availability the
application loader must not modify, erase, or exfiltrate kernel data. On most
boards, the application loader must be trusted to not modify, erase, or
exfiltrate kernel data. However, Tock boards may use other mechanisms to protect
the kernel without trusting the application loader. For example, a board with
access-control hardware between its flash storage and the application loader may
use that hardware to protect the kernel's data without trusting the application
loader.

## TBF Verification Requirement

The application loader is required to confirm that the TBF's `total_size` field

> is correct before deploying an application. This is to prevent the

Author: That's specified in the Tock Binary Format docs: https://github.com/tock/tock/blob/master/doc/TockBinaryFormat.md#tbf-header-base. It's the total size of the TBF in bytes.

I added a link to the docs.

newly-deployed application from executing the following attacks:

1. Specifying an incorrect `total_size`, preventing the remaining application(s)
   from launching (impacting availability).

1. Specifying a too-large `total_size` that include the subsequent
   application(s) image(s), allowing the malicious application to read the

>    images(s) (impacting confidentiality).

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by "the distinction between too-large vs. incorrect seems fuzzy" -- please clarify. Any value other than the correct value is "incorrect" and any value larger than the correct one is "too-large".

I added availability to the list of values impacted by a too-large total_size.

>    images(s) (impacting confidentiality).

Reviewer: Something that's too large is also incorrect so it seemed weird to have a distinction. I think listing availability and confidentiality is the important part though.

## Trusted Compute Base in the Application Loader

The application loader may be broken into multiple pieces, only some of which
need to be trusted. The resulting threat model depends on the form the
application loader takes. For example:

1. Tockloader has the access it needs to directly delete, corrupt, and
   exfiltrate apps. As a result, Tockloader must be trusted for Tock's
   confidentiality, integrity, and availability guarantees.

1. A build system that combines apps into a single image must be trusted to
   correctly compile and merge the apps and kernel. The build system must be
   trusted to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability guarantees.
   If the resulting image is signed (and the signature verified by a

>    bootloader), then the firmware deployment mechanism need not be trusted. If

Author: You're correct to be wary: my statement was incorrect. I've updated it. The firmware deployment mechanism must be trusted for confidentiality and availability; the statement I made applies only to integrity.

Application Loader
==================

## What is an Application Loader?

The term "application loader" refers to the mechanism used to add Tock
applications to a Tock system. It can take several forms; here are a few
examples:

> 1. Tockloader is an application loader that runs on a host system. It uses

Author: Applied, thanks.

Application Loader
==================

## What is an Application Loader?

The term "application loader" refers to the mechanism used to add Tock
applications to a Tock system. It can take several forms; here are a few
examples:

1. Tockloader is an application loader that runs on a host system. It uses

>    programming interfaces to manipulate applications on the Tock system's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   various host-to-board interfaces (e.g. JTAG, UART bootloader, etc.) to manipulate applications on the Tock system's
```

Author: Done.

applications. For example, the application loader must not modify, erase, or
exfiltrate applications other than the application(s) it was asked to operate
on.

Tock kernels that require all applications to be signed do not need to trust the
application loader for application integrity, as that is done by validating the
signature instead. However, the application loader still needs to be trusted for
availability guarantees, as it can still modify applications and make the
signature check fail. Tock kernels that do not require signed applications must
trust the application loader to not maliciously modify applications.

To protect the kernel's confidentiality, integrity, and availability the
application loader must not modify, erase, or exfiltrate kernel data. On most
boards, the application loader must be trusted to not modify, erase, or
exfiltrate kernel data. However, Tock boards may use other mechanisms to protect
the kernel without trusting the application loader. For example, a board with
access-control hardware between its flash storage and the application loader may
use that hardware to protect the kernel's data without trusting the application
loader.

> ## TBF Verification Requirement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Tock Binary Format (TBF) Verification Requirement
```

> The application loader is required to confirm that the TBF's `total_size` field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application loader is required to confirm that the TBF header's `total_size` field
```

Author: Done.

is correct (as specified in the [Tock Binary
Format](../TockBinaryFormat.md#tbf-header-base)) before deploying an
application. This is to prevent the newly-deployed application from executing
the following attacks:

1. Specifying an incorrect `total_size`, preventing the kernel from finding the
   remaining application(s), which prevents the remaining application(s) from
   launching (impacting availability).

1. Specifying a too-large `total_size` that includes the subsequent
   application(s) image(s), allowing the malicious application to read the
   images(s) (impacting availability and confidentiality).

> 

Reviewer 2: Hmm...this may not be enough of a requirement. Since we don't require that there be any particular sentinel at the end of the valid apps in flash, it is difficult (in light of an adversary) to tell when we are at the end of the list of applications.

Consider a list of say four applications, and the app loader wants to corrupt the third app's TBF header. It can set the total_size in the header correctly, but if it sets the other initial fields incorrectly the header will fail to parse and the kernel will not load the fourth app.

At the very least we need the version half-word to be correct as well.

Author: I added wording indicating that the length field check is version-dependent.
